Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hello.
Misty Moncada: Hi, how are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Good, how are you
Misty Moncada: Good just relaxing today. Mm hmm.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not on the goal like usually
Misty Moncada: No today. No, I nothing except my therapy appointment with you and I have DWI school tonight. I've had the most peaceful day
Misty Moncada: That's good. Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what would you like to talk about today.
Misty Moncada: Know, the other day I had to counsel with you because of my ex husband.
Misty Moncada: he relapsed he's been sober, a little over two years and he relapsed on alcohol and ended up getting alcohol poisoning and so well this is last week. So I went to go try to help him and I started drinking
Misty Moncada: And I was like, okay, like I gotta go. I can't be in this type of environment. But, um, um, I told my ex mother in law that I couldn't help him because I'm trying to help myself right now so I i mean as quickly as I felt as quickly as I picked myself up.
Misty Moncada: But, um, other than that of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That were you at his house.
Misty Moncada: Yes, yes, I was at his house and then he will
Misty Moncada: I was at group and he called me and he was like, I really need to see I'm having a crisis. And I said, Well, after group. I'm going to Celebrate Recovery. He's like, Please don't go to Celebrate Recovery just come hang out with me.
Misty Moncada: So I went to go hang out with him and I'm an ex alcoholic. So I see all these little mini bottles and I'm like, oh, like I'm already wanting to drink.
Misty Moncada: So I drink a few. And then I ended up leaving that night. And then I had to. I went back few days later, because he got alcohol poisoning, but
Misty Moncada: I just kind of, I just told my mother in law, like how to stay away. I told him I had to stay away because I'm still new my sobriety and I just don't want to mess up. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what was the aftermath. After that, you know, after having the relapse and was alcohol. The only relax. Did you do anything.
Misty Moncada: No, no I I relapsed on alcohol and then I don't even do math, like a methamphetamines like I like my drugs heroin. Well, I would to hang out with some friends who were doing methamphetamines and I snorted. A few lines and
Misty Moncada: Then I was like oh my gosh, like I can't be doing this. So I ended up just kept making myself come home, but I was gone, partying for like two days like
Misty Moncada: And I had to pick myself up though because I was like this is not cool. So my thing is I just can't put myself in a type of situations are going to jeopardize my sobriety. Yeah, because I I seen how I thought I was strong, but I saw how weak. I was. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that was my next question, because I know you were so busy with her with your recovery groups and just everything. What do you think shifted the focus of the direction
Misty Moncada: Um, well.
Misty Moncada: Like I have four more groups left and I'm done for probation like four or more groups. I didn't do I did one group last week, my goal was to do at least three of them.
Misty Moncada: I missed VIP VIP class I had for probation that's once every so many months I missed that. So like looking at the stuff that I didn't go to Celebrate Recovery or church and things I normally did, I did not do and I threw it all aside, and that's just not me. So
Misty Moncada: I had to pick myself back up quickly and
Misty Moncada: Like everybody at my church knows I relapsed because they hadn't heard from me and they knew something was wrong and I told him the truth.
Misty Moncada: I went to my groups. I've done everything I had to do this week because I just can't do that to myself. I can't, I can't, I'm, I'm working so hard to to get where I'm at right now yeah and and then I had, I started working home health care with this guy.
Misty Moncada: That lives down the street from me. Well, he fired me because because he wants a home health care provider who had a car and like
Misty Moncada: I I'm not supposed to be driving my job slices or suspend it so
Misty Moncada: But that didn't upset me I just kind of thought, well, maybe that's not the job for me.
Misty Moncada: So just a lots been happening. Yeah, and I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hear you say it was a break in your routine that kind of opened the door for the relax.
Misty Moncada: Yes, like it. I think after I realized when I was sober a piss me off because I was like everything you're working so hard to complete and accomplish you just
Misty Moncada: excuse my language or you just lock that up in a few days, like, you know, I could have had all my groups done and I missed. Celebrate Recovery and I I volunteer on Monday nights, Sarah, you know,
Misty Moncada: Things that I I normally do. And then after when I came home, all I wanted to do with sleep for two days.
Misty Moncada: And I'm like, that's just not like me to just give up. So it really hurt my my feelings. My within myself because I, I feel like I just really let myself down. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How did you get back up what motivated you to get back in there.
Misty Moncada: Well, I was at my friends hanging out and I got a text say my income tax were in me and I was like, if I don't leave from here I'm going to like I've got bills to pay. I got I got things. I got to pay. And I was like, if I leave from here I'm going to waste all this money.
Misty Moncada: Yeah, and that was like my like I was like, you know, I can't leave my grandson without my mom, she need help with the bills. And so that was like my motivation when I got that texts and it was like okay your income tax or on your card. And I'm like, I don't get the hell out of here.
Misty Moncada: Why it. Yeah, because I was like okay if I tell one of my friends. Oh, I just got my checks, they're going to talk me into stayed there are getting higher drunk and I it was so crazy. Just that one Texas my motivational either
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because that one text could have meant something different for someone else, like you said, it could have went the other way. Okay, now I have money to get more drugs.
Misty Moncada: Yes. Yeah. Yes. I was like, oh no, oh no, I've got so much stuff to pay so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you recognize breaking the routine and then also priorities out of your priorities about the bills helping your mom and your grandson back to made you go on the other end up. Okay. Not this money.
Misty Moncada: I have to sit here my priority.
Misty Moncada: So what what the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Relationship look like with your ex husband now because what do you do because you again.
Misty Moncada: Um, he actually called me yesterday when I was in group again it pissed me off. He was drunk is hacked looking for his car keys which I already knew my mother in law. My mom I hit him from him.
Misty Moncada: And I, and I told him, Look, I can't do this, I will not help you and I hit way okay after I relapsed I went back over there one day because I he had to. He went to the hospital for alcohol poisoning.
Misty Moncada: And went to go help his mom, he was treating me like crap like he was just like, pretty plug my phone and I said, no, because if you weren't drunk, you could do that.
Misty Moncada: Is like can you make me something to eat. I was like, no, because if you weren't drunk, you could do that too. I'm just here to make sure that you don't hurt yourself.
Misty Moncada: And he was just really awful to me i and i don't know if it's just because he was drunk but
Misty Moncada: For me, my best thing is to not make because if I stick around them. I'm going to make it. He's gonna make an enemy out of me like I'm end up being his enemy and I'm not going to care and like, so I know the real him and
Misty Moncada: I just think it's best I stay away from him and not acknowledge him not speak to him not return his text messages or answer phone calls right now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, thanks for being transparent, how was that on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When you have that revelation. You come to. So you said you told your church members on you're telling me, was there anyone else that you consider a support that you shared this last week.
Misty Moncada: I have a lot of followers on Facebook right now that follow me because of my sobriety and how I I just left heroin, out of nowhere.
Misty Moncada: And I told Facebook. I told all the people that have been following me that I fail and like I apologize if I if I like, I not only her felt myself like I feel like I failed you guys because you know a lot of I have a lot of followers, but everybody was so supportive on Facebook.
Misty Moncada: I just had one I had one negative inbox message from actually a really good friend of mine that was like stop posting stuff. If you're not going to live by it and I was like, I live by everything I post on Facebook and yeah I relapsed but that doesn't mean I'll live by it.
Misty Moncada: And
Misty Moncada: And that's just, I just had one negative response. Everybody was so supportive. Yeah.
Misty Moncada: My model to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, sorry. Say,
Misty Moncada: My mom was supportive to, like, usually when I would come home, really high or drunk. She would scream at me. My kids were screaming at me.
Misty Moncada: I came home and my mom talks to me so normal like usually she'll be like, I could walk and she's like oh you fucked up again are telling me off.
Misty Moncada: No shoes so kind about. She's like, You just broke my heart because you're doing so good. And I know that you could do this, do not want to yell at me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Think, her, her approach to good that have contributed to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know, getting back more motivation.
Misty Moncada: Um, yeah, yeah. And also support like when I went to church on Monday night, and then I went to Celebrate Recovery and I have been to church since last week. So when I went to like them being supportive as well helped me with my mom support and them because they were like,
Misty Moncada: Everybody just kept hugging me and they're like, we're here for you. Like if you ever need to call somebody call us so that just made me what inspired me more to like
Misty Moncada: Like okay, this isn't the end of the world because I keep beating myself up about it. Well, I was I'm not anymore. I'm like, it's done, it's over. Forget about it. But they're still kind of me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, I'm looking at your arm. Your BAM survey and you read it family friend arguments for this this argument and conflicts with your ex husband.
Misty Moncada: Yes. Yes. Um,
Misty Moncada: And like, I'm not actually blaming him because on my own downfall. But the alcohol was like enabled me
Misty Moncada: It was sitting there and then we kept arguing and arguing and he was really treating me like crap like and
Misty Moncada: I was going to sit there and just try to help him because he was sloppy drunk he people are self twice. So I went, I went to change him. And I'm like,
Misty Moncada: I'm not gonna sit here and baby him. I'm not gonna do it. You know, so it escalated to arguing and
Misty Moncada: And him just down me downing me just non stop like you're, you're not worth a crap and stuff. And I'm like, and you're so much better like sit here pissing all over yourself. You know, and I was so mad.
Misty Moncada: But I knew if I stayed there. I would just continue. And then when we were married we had physical fights like I was more the aggressor in my marriage with him. Like I would hit him if he talked back to me. I would. I was like,
Misty Moncada: Abusive wife, you know, and I didn't want it to escalate to that.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's important is that in this in this variety, there's going to be lots of people that held very close relationships and significance in your life.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now when this understanding how to connect those boundaries and how to how to deliver those boundaries with enough so that you can enforce those boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have those boundaries in place and we were you know being consistent and then THAT CALL FROM THAT CALL IT ALL spiral. But the beauty is that you were able to recognize the onset. There's a lot of patients that they can't see what troopergate
Misty Moncada: Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you saw you know the response of breaking your team evil with the priorities and also your ex husband.
Misty Moncada: Yeah, that was a big thing for me like I'm
Misty Moncada: I just break doing like I had this repetitive pattern you know and like messing that up for me messed up my head a little. I was like,
Misty Moncada: Now like I can't do this. And, you know, it's just, I just got to be stronger and it's so funny because like I really thought I was strong.
Misty Moncada: But I am actually, I feel like I was strong, because when I was at my friends, the other day.
Misty Moncada: He was like, I know you like to shoot up so he's all, do you want a needle to shoot up some math. And I was like,
Misty Moncada: Now, good. So like I couldn't believe even though I got high like I turned down a needle like that was my. That was what I love doing the most when I would shoot up heroin is like poking myself.
Misty Moncada: So for me to say no to a needle. I felt like wow I'm strong. I'm just still not strong enough yet to be around any type of alcohol, I realized that, yeah, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The alcohol onset. The other drugs for you.
Misty Moncada: Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This video
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I played for other patients, but considering the dynamic with your husband and your ex husband and me thinking that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He's going to pop up again. He's going to continuously to try to seek access to get your support and how are you going to navigate that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Misty Moncada: I don't know. Like, right now I'm I know I'm being so rude yesterday when he called. I was like, stop backing calling me like I'm not here to I'm not here to babe you I don't
Misty Moncada: give a damn about you and I shouldn't have been like that.
Misty Moncada: But like I was getting mad because he just kept texting and calling and
Misty Moncada: I'm like I'm in group like I'm in group, like, Don't do that to me. I haven't explained to him that was in group, but he was so sloppy drunk that he didn't care. So like if he would have like
Misty Moncada: I I'm not strong enough to be there to help him, but I can talk to him on the phone if he would like to. But right away. He starts, um,
Misty Moncada: I don't like it. He starts comparing me to his ex girlfriend. And then he started calling me her name, which I i've met her before she's a really nice girl but
Misty Moncada: I just, I'm my own person like stop calling me your ex girlfriend's name. Yeah. And then he was like downing me saying, well, you're nothing like her. And I'm like, yeah, my own person, but it started to piss me off because I don't know if he was doing it on purpose or for attention. So
Misty Moncada: If I was there to help him as a friend and he as long as he do stuff like that.
Misty Moncada: Yeah but him doing like stupid little crap like that. Like, I was like, I have to leave because I'll end up slapping him hitting him.
Misty Moncada: All the things that I don't need to do
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your ex husband just seems like he's too much of a trigger right now and it's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Too early in your recovery to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even put certain restrictions, like, Oh, I'll just call them, you know, I'll just answer that call, because then what happens is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's what led to it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was the phone call and then you know that nurturing component came up and you were to help them.
Misty Moncada: And I should I should get on Facebook and I should block messenger because he uses messenger more than he does my phone. My home phone
Misty Moncada: I mean my cell phone. I get he'll he texts me more messenger calls me on messenger. They does on our cell phones. Yeah, so
Misty Moncada: But I'm not strong enough. I can't do it. I told my ex mother in law, I cannot do it. I cannot help him. I do not want to be there. And I told her the other day, like I have a life too.
Misty Moncada: I any, you know, it just, it hurts my heart because he was the chair like he would share the A meetings every night and nighttime.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so two years so
Misty Moncada: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because he's spiral downward. It's like he's trying to find out the people to start out with him to almost justify
Misty Moncada: Yes. And then one thing he did ask you, like when I first went to talk to him. He was like, I want to get high. I was like, so like, what does that have to do with me.
Misty Moncada: And that was before I relapse. I was like, so what does that have to do me like
Misty Moncada: He was like, well you know where to get it. I'm like, I don't care. Like, you're not going to get high. You already drink. You're not going to get high. So I'm really glad that I stopped that and
Misty Moncada: I don't know what he's doing now and I could care less, because like i can't i can't afford to man. I'm on probation my probation officer so lenient with me right now and I'm doing so good and like he's like coding me a lot of breaks and
Misty Moncada: And I don't want to mess that up because then I'll have, I'll be in trouble. Yeah, you know, and there will be like requirements of me for my probation if I get caught up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, I'm gonna share my screen with you so we can
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just watch a video on the boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, because between your friends. That's offering you a needle and your ex husband. There's lots of the temptations out there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so navigating these two locations, because they're successful, they're going to be everywhere. And this is the very beginning, you know, getting back and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're at risk. Now because you've already had a relapse and so getting back on, you know, back on the bandwagon. It's commendable it's respectful, but you also want to be hyper vigilant and aware of that. Okay, what do I do to avoid this.
Misty Moncada: Yes. Okay.
Misty Moncada: Is that dirty clothes recovery and today I'm here to teach you about boundaries. Now, this video will be beneficial for anybody. If you're a person and you have any kind of relationships. This information will be valuable.
Misty Moncada: But pretty much the focus of the information on providing will be for people in recovery or if you have loved ones in recovery. So here's some information about boundaries boundaries are incredibly important. Okay.
Misty Moncada: When I am setting boundaries. I'm honoring myself and I'm honoring the people around me when I'm setting boundaries. I'm teaching people how to maintain a relationship with me.
Misty Moncada: And I'm teaching people about my limits. Now let's use the metaphorical doors to really get into some boundaries. Imagine that this doors are Lana safety.
Misty Moncada: And it separates you from unhealthy people situations or anything that compromises, who you are.
Misty Moncada: Now for strong ego boundaries. So you can see that the door knob is on the inside. That means you control and dictate the door. All right.
Misty Moncada: You get to deny access to anybody who you deem unsafe when you have strong ego boundaries and you will not let hypersensitive or unregulated emotions influence your decisions.
Misty Moncada: Therefore, you will trust your judgment and have autonomy. When you interact with the people around you.
Misty Moncada: This means that you're really taking time to honor yourself that you acknowledge the fact that you have worth value and you're practicing self love you don't need external validation from anyone around you to feel good about yourself.
Misty Moncada: Next we have week ego boundaries and this example you can see the door knob is no longer on the inside on the outside. This means you no longer get to control or dictate the terms of your line of safety.
Misty Moncada: So people will be able to come and go as they please and you will not be able to really express your emotional state.
Misty Moncada: Pretty much what this means is you will be able to be used because you can be hurt or manipulated, you will no longer have the ability to trust the people around you.
Misty Moncada: This can affect all your relationships. You may be suspicious of everyone around you, even people that want to help you because this will oftentimes lead to feelings of less than or also feeling inferior to the people around you.
Misty Moncada: This will then be internalized and create toxic shame. This will create a cycle where somebody will have to resort back to addictive compulsive behaviors, maybe even active addiction to cope with those feelings of shame.
Misty Moncada: And it will further reinforce any kind of weak ego boundaries that have already been set in place, finally we get to
Misty Moncada: Broken ego boundaries. Now this is a very dangerous situation to be in. When you have broken ego boundaries. As you can see,
Misty Moncada: Not only is the door knob on the outside, but the doors has been completely ripped off its hinges. So what this represents is there is now no line of defense.
Misty Moncada: In this state, you won't be able to trust yourself or the people around you. Anyone can walk right in this will leave you in a constant state of confusion, the people around you will be able to get a reaction from you and you won't have the ability to say no.
Misty Moncada: With no sense of empowerment, you will be in a constant state of stress and feel helpless your evaluation of what safe or dangerous will oftentimes being correct and that will lead to a constant state of fear.
Misty Moncada: Now that we have a general understanding of boundaries. Let's talk about some tips on setting boundaries. The first part of setting a boundary is to acknowledge that I trust, and I love myself.
I have an understanding of the receiving party and I know the best way of communicating to them.
When setting boundaries. It's important to hold yourself and the people around you to this new standard of healthy interaction.
If you set a boundary, but you do not hold people accountable to these boundaries, you're sending a very poor message.
People might think this person's word means nothing. Or I have the ability to manipulate them. If you're a parent or a loved one of somebody who has the disease of addiction.
Make sure that you stand as a united front discuss and set boundaries together.
Also be prepared for when your loved one does. Enter treatment or Recovery Center. They might begin to set boundaries with you be receptive to the way they communicate
And respect their boundaries. While this might seem a little weird or new to you. Please understand that this is actually a very positive change and reflect someone who's healing. This has been robbed the tree house recovery. Thank you for joining.
Misty Moncada: I'm that's exactly how I felt like all those because I felt like I can't. He said, you're like you're manipulated.
Misty Moncada: The way I felt like I was manipulated, but then like I'm still my own person, and I don't I don't like to blame anyone for my downfalls I just feel like he enabled it
Misty Moncada: And I feel like I'm through manipulation, like it was like, I really need you. I need you. But he was still able to drive.
Misty Moncada: He was still able to pick me up from group because I was in group the day he picked me up and
Misty Moncada: And see my ex husband just a little spoiled little RICH KID, YOU KNOW, HE'S for a little rich kid that has had like everything's a snap of a finger well
Misty Moncada: He's so used to that attention. You know, it's like just I need, I need, I need and his parents will do that they will give him all the attention he wants. So I felt like I was manipulated into the situation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I agree. And I'm glad you were able to catch that, because that was my takeaway to from that experiences that because there aren't that strong boundaries with your ex husband, he knows that he can find a way to manipulate based on just the history of your relationship.
Misty Moncada: Yes, yes. And then him calling yesterday.
Misty Moncada: It was just like you could tell he was already sloppy drunk he he was just like
Misty Moncada: Where are my keys that. And so I was like, look, I'm a group like this is so disrespectful of you.
Misty Moncada: And then he kept calling that I just kept ignoring and then I you know me calling his mother and just, I told her.
Misty Moncada: I don't know if you're aware, but he's really really drunk and he's looking for his keys and she's like, I got them. So, you know, I tried to like instead of speaking to him and I wanted to make sure he was okay. I just called my ex mother in law.
Misty Moncada: Yeah, that's a, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Andre with average because the picking up the phone and engaging him in those behaviors gives them that opportunity of realizing misty doesn't have strong boundaries. She doesn't have that strong ego strength right now. Right now reskill that week equals true.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I can take advantage
Misty Moncada: Right, right, right. And for me, like, I just, I'm not gonna allow that. And I'm so proud of myself that I was so strong, like
Misty Moncada: Maybe we get certain things because I'm still week but I was strong at some things, and like I see see me. I see where I'm healing.
Misty Moncada: Yeah, like parts of me are starting to heal. But parts of me. I noticed you're still week which I know the event. I mean,
Misty Moncada: I'm still going to be that way. I'm new in my recovery. Yeah, I'm just really happy that I did not relapse on heroin. Yeah. Had I relapsed on heroin. I would not be sitting here right now.
Misty Moncada: Like I would be on a mission. I would not care. I wouldn't even care that I had bills to pay, because heroin is is my was my drug yeah and so
Misty Moncada: I'm very thankful. And I actually tried to um I had called a friend of mine and I was like, no, I text a friend of mine. I was like, you have
Misty Moncada: A dealer NOT LIKE DO YOU HAVE ANY HEROIN and and he never checked back night for hours. Can you text back by Lee. He was like, yeah, like what's up. Where are you, and I was like,
Misty Moncada: I don't even want it now. So, I bet I was already drunk. So I was on that little level where I was like, No, I'm good. So I was so proud of myself that even though I was so messed up. I was proud that I was like, I don't need it now. Yeah, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you know what you're doing you celebrating those small victories. So even though there was a relapse.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The small victory is
I did we left from here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Over time, those small victories become accomplishment, because we don't want to continue in minimizing the relapse. We're saying, you know, just the fine. But over time, because you know you have to celebrate those small
Misty Moncada: victories. Right, right.
Misty Moncada: So, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: About the statement deny access to those who are risk for you, who, who are those people
Misty Moncada: Right now it's, um, it's my ex husband like really really hand I'm not so much. My, my friends that I used to get high with like they don't even text or call me anymore. Like they they don't, um,
Misty Moncada: I
Misty Moncada: Don't know it's I really was starting to get rid of all those people, you know, and then it's just like the one person I the least expected in the world to relapse. It just broke my heart. But I'm broken. I can't fix him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Why he relax.
Misty Moncada: Well, him and his girlfriend were coming back from Colorado and I guess he stopped at all of garden to eat, and they were giving complimentary glasses of wine.
Misty Moncada: And they had both I guess started drinking, she goes to as well.
Misty Moncada: And she she's trying to stay sober from pills and him from or her from alcohol and pills and him for math and pills and so they both relapse together and they were on the way back from Colorado and
Misty Moncada: They just were getting really drunk and arguing. So he was calling me and he was like
Misty Moncada: I don't give a damn about her no more. And I was like, Is she in the car with you like that is so disrespectful of you. I told him, I said, as a woman.
Misty Moncada: That is so disrespectful for that other woman to be sitting there. I was like, I shouldn't be talking to you, like, I have to go. He's like, well, I love you like I want you back in. I think he was being spike.
Misty Moncada: Because she was in the car with him.
Misty Moncada: And I think that probably cause more arguments between the two him calling me but he kept after I was like, look, don't call me so I hung up on him.
Misty Moncada: And then he tried to call back a few other times I just hung up. So I'm pretty sure between that phone call him calling and talking to me in front of her and saying that
Misty Moncada: caused them to buy along the way till they got here to to our town and then she took off. So, um,
Misty Moncada: I guess the fight, mustn't escalated. Where are must have been a big trigger for him where he was like, okay, I need to go drink more to not think about her.
Misty Moncada: And then when he was really drunk he kept calling me Britney, so I know that he missed her. Yeah, and
Misty Moncada: I text her a really what I need to apologize to her because that's not cool. I text her a message from his phone.
Misty Moncada: Because he was like text, Brittany, and I'm like, the only way I'm going to text her and tell her is like she needs to be here taking care of you. Not me.
Misty Moncada: This is not my problem. You're not my problem. And I texture and I really like told her some really awful stuff like I was just like, look, if you're not here to take care of them. When I see on a slap the shit out of you.
Misty Moncada: I shouldn't have told her all that because in all reality, it's not her fault.
Misty Moncada: He's his own person, but um and I was really rude to her and I didn't get a response back either because I told her, I said, you know, like I just told her ugly things and that's just not me anymore either like
Misty Moncada: I'm more of adult now like I need to not be acting like a kid and I do want to apologize to her and I know that she goes to A and I couldn't tonight because I have DWI school but like I want to go to a at nighttime. And just tell her I'm sorry, because that's not her fault.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I'm curious, is there still hope to repair this relationship with your ex husband.
Misty Moncada: No, I am not for me. Like, we're just friends like not for me.
Misty Moncada: I don't know, I just, I think it's best like I need to work on myself before I can get in relationships. So for me, I think it's best just the spreads.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are strong boundaries will need to put in place, because from the outside looking in. When I hear the story.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It makes me wonder if, in addition to the risk of him also be an addict. Is it an emotional risk to not only for relax, but also just manipulating you and possibly bring you back into a relationship that's not healthy for you.
Misty Moncada: Right. Right. And we have both discuss this in the past. We both discuss the fact that we were when we both had a hill and like we had a lot to work on and
Misty Moncada: We decided that it was best for us. But now that he's really drunk. He's in his feelings like oh, we really need to be together. And now I love you and you're my wife and
Misty Moncada: I'm like, I'm not your wife anymore. I've been divorced for me since 2009 like I'm not your wife anymore. I'm your friend and
Misty Moncada: And I still like like I put I posted on Facebook like prayers prayers for my hubby, you know, I, and I still call them hubby or, you know, but I don't
Misty Moncada: Say like ex husband, but I was just like, prayers for my hubby and I really just and I just kept him in prayer and and just trying to stay positive. But yeah, I can't me staying positive around him is a no no like I couldn't even be positive. I want it to around him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That comment prayers for my hubby
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Putting yourself. Aside from this situation and looking at it from the outside.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What boundaries. Does that create
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When I'm about your ex husband you reference him his hobbies still
Misty Moncada: Um, I don't know, like, even though we're divorced. We always like we've never said like X. It's kind of funny. So I don't, I don't know, like, um,
Misty Moncada: I think I need to eventually say yeah we're divorce.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Language plays a huge part in how our brain processes. So even still giving him the title of hubby posting it or even saying it verbally, the brain is going to process it with some emotional response.
Misty Moncada: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so that is also going to be a trigger that he calls and the language that you've identified him as his puppy your point to act in the role of a light.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it was very clear because that's exactly what you did you add in the role of the wife of being a nurturer supporter and helping him through that. But now it's time to give him a new title the chicken also reshaped and
Misty Moncada: Program that brands that he doesn't have access to it goes, I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have the privilege as hobby.
Misty Moncada: Right, yeah. I need. I really got to work on that. And you know, I just, there's so many things I just feel like
Misty Moncada: Yeah, I've gotta let him go. I've gotta let him go. And I'm not like in love with him anymore. I just feel like
Misty Moncada: Like I really want to help him sometimes and and like for me right now to actually say no, like, I feel kind of crappy about it, but I feel like I got to because it's gonna, it's just going to mess me up, it will it will
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, did I ever played the video for you. The drama triangle with the rest of you were
Misty Moncada: Yeah, because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You really identifying as the rescuer and this relationship and and maybe another relationships because now that I'm thinking about it, you getting your income tax of thinking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where you live out of help.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: A model her bills and my my grandson that rescuer of I gotta protect and I gotta provide for my family it kicked in your height, your ex husband and his face you're coming identify with that.
Rescue Romo again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When in reality, you need to work on rescue yourself.
Misty Moncada: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. How's this gonna have to find his own rescue
Misty Moncada: Yes, and that's the way it. That's the way I felt and then like the other night. Again, I guess he was so drunk and fill in his head had to be rushed by ambulance. Again, I'm like,
Misty Moncada: I'm not going. I told my level. I'm sorry, but I cannot jeopardize my sobriety. My. So good luck. God bless you, guys. And you guys have a safe night.
Misty Moncada: And I know. She seemed like she was kind of upset with the text that she text back like, well, I need you to help me, help me, but I guess you just can't. You're too busy or you could tell she was obviously upset but i just i didn't give a response back. I didn't feel I need it to.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's layers to that manipulation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Will be aware of those different signals of manipulation, because that text was her trying to give another opportunity for you to come in and help
Misty Moncada: Yes. And then his, his house. Has he has a security system on his home. Sweet. It has cameras everywhere. Okay, so like
Misty Moncada: Whenever I had went and he was sloppy drunk, like she was a she's able to unlock the house.
Misty Moncada: With from her cell phone, you know, she's able to see all these cameras in and I there's none in the house. But she could see who's coming going if he's leaving
Misty Moncada: So in all reality. Like, you don't need me there. If you see him about to take off and use drunk and call 911 or gold there so
Misty Moncada: You know, that's why I fell, and then she would just be like, Well, I'm watching on the camera somebody taking a bag which I knows alcohol or I'm like well you ever have everything right there for you.
You go
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He already has everything he needs to be sober for he's still choosing not to be sober. So a reality. What could you really do to stop it.
Misty Moncada: Nothing, nothing. The way and if I relapsed on heroin. There would be nothing he could do to stop it therefore there's nothing I can do to stop it. He's adamant about it. He's, he's, he there's no turning their it probably really be a fight like
Misty Moncada: I know I tricked him like he had a bunch of bottles everywhere. Nine nine banana bottles everywhere. And I opened them when he passed out and I poured half out and I poured half water in there.
Misty Moncada: Like I did that and he couldn't even tell the difference here so sloppy joes to tell the difference, but
Misty Moncada: Then he couldn't find some more bottles and he just started talking crap to me like, where the hell are my bottles at. And I'm like,
Misty Moncada: I really don't know. I don't know. I haven't been here with you. So I don't know. So like I can already see the issues if I were even to help him or trying is not going to stop. He's going to continue to be little me and
Misty Moncada: I'm not going to be that girl. I'm going to end up fighting him yeah and and i will hit him and like
Misty Moncada: I'm I mean I'm not trying to brag, but that was my temper. When I was young, like I did. I was not wanting to be pushed around and
Misty Moncada: I'm learning as an adult, not to act out like that anymore to be an adult about things. Now, not to fight put my hands on people.
Misty Moncada: But I could already see myself I was looking him, I was like, shut up, because almost I'm a smack you like I was like, I'm a backhand you like, shut up. And I'm like, they use he's bringing me out of my character. Yeah, I can't, I'm good. Like, I can. I'm staying away from there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: One of the things with boundaries is that you'll go back and forth with China compromise and negotiate those boundaries, you know, am I being too hard. Is this reasonable, should I help aware comes in that mediator is that self love
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you going to love yourself so that you can remain strong in your boundaries.
Right.
Misty Moncada: And for me, loving myself is this realizing I come first, Maya and
Misty Moncada: It's, I, I just need to be selfish right now like a friend of mine. Well, my cousin told me the day before yesterday I was talking to my cousin and a friend of mine last night. It was telling me like the same stuff.
Misty Moncada: Stop trying to help everybody like stop trying to do it like you have to be selfish, you have to worry value.
Misty Moncada: And my cousin. She's been sober off methamphetamines and alcohol for like like three years and she gives me some great advice.
Misty Moncada: And she was like, you just have to be selfish. Like if people need help. You have to be like, no, like, I can't right now and
Misty Moncada: My cousin said that's like with me. She's all you have too big of a heart that you want to help people you're going to end up damaging yourself and I really believe her because I just damaged myself last week, like I just can't.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Usually in these type of situations before was a relaxing someone was
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Telling me like these different red
Misty Moncada: Flags and relationships.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My question to them, would have been
Misty Moncada: A. What's the worst that can happen if you continue to operate this way in this relationship.
Misty Moncada: I am going to be an alcoholic. Again, which is a trigger for drugs and I'm eventually going to go back to heroin or some type of drugs. So I could feel numb right along with him and
Misty Moncada: Also because I like I see it as escape to cuz I know I felt overwhelmed lately with everything I'm doing. So when I noticed when I drink. I was like,
Misty Moncada: I have no worries in the world right down there. I was trying to escape something and I noticed that too, like something I would have never noticed out to be like, oh, I don't give a damn what I have to do or don't do
Misty Moncada: I noticed that I was just like, I was trying to know myself like okay I have no responsibilities, no misty pull yourself out of that you got responsibilities and like
Misty Moncada: I'm almost done with those responsibilities, like I got DWI school and I got two more Wednesdays and that's done. I got four more groups that I'm done with that for probation.
Misty Moncada: Like there's so many things I'm accomplishing and I'm going to ruin it. Yeah, and that's a big thing for me right now because I refuse to to fail at this right now, but I know that will easily be taken away. If I keep going around there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are what are some. What are some things you're going to put in place.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that
Misty Moncada: You mentioned blocking on the Facebook Messenger. I think that's a good one.
Misty Moncada: What am I gonna do that. Yeah.
Misty Moncada: I don't know, there's an another friend of mine that hangs around him and she texted me just to let me know he's okay and stuff, but I'm just gonna tell her.
Misty Moncada: I also got to tell her, like, I don't want to hear about it because I've got my own issues right now.
Misty Moncada: And if my ex mother in law, Texas. I'm just going to be like, look, I have my own life. Like, I cannot help you. I have to tell them that because if
Misty Moncada: They start telling me stuff that's going on. I start getting sad, like, oh my gosh. Is he really okay I don't want to feel like that right now. I don't want to be like guess you're right. Then I'm gonna mess myself. Oh, no.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's natural, you know, that shows that you really, you have a good human nurturing instinct. So anyone in your situation with Bill attempted to call someone that is a need
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But if you don't know then you won't feel that desire. So, you know, there may be some people that will think that your boundaries are being insensitive being selfish. So we'll be aware that that might come up and to not let that distract you from the boundaries, you need to put in place.
Misty Moncada: Yes, ma'am.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Be prepared for the pushback, it's going to come and and some people are probably gonna miss judge you. But really, these boundaries are about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: overall well being for you and developing that self love. So when I think about the short term and long term consequences, the short term, is that some people are probably going to say, Miss each change, you know, and in that you could say, yeah, change for the better.
Misty Moncada: They may say miss these insensitive.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That they're going to be their short term thought process but long term, you're going to be developing more days and more resources on the system to get that sobriety, because the longer that you're sober, the less risk you have a relaxing again.
Misty Moncada: Yes. So true.
Misty Moncada: But other than that, everything has been good. Like, I mean, life is okay. I just long as I just stay away from everything I'm all right. Like,
Misty Moncada: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have you had any any recent trigger the thoughts about one of these alcohol happen.
Misty Moncada: Um, no. Not since I came home, but like I knew at that just at that moment when I seen those bottles. It was right away. I could trigger. I was like,
Misty Moncada: My mouth starts watering like I was a vodka drinker. I drink vodka straight and 99 bananas is so strong, you know, like vodka. So like looking at it. I was just like,
Misty Moncada: I it was immediately and it's so weird, because the store. When I go to the store to like the gas or something and the bottles are right there.
Misty Moncada: I don't get like that they're not a trigger for me. But when I was sitting right beside those bottles it. It was a big trigger night knowing some of the streets right front of me and I was like, wow, like nobody was around to tell me I couldn't do it, you know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Relaxed trigger an emotional trigger for you to
Misty Moncada: I don't want you to negate from the fact that he's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Also an emotional trigger think you're putting up this block and focusing on the relapse, but they are something still there that has that emotional trigger for you to do at the gas station. There's no emotional responses, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He represents your past. He represents, you know, but still, he's in present day he still has that title today.
Misty Moncada: Yes, and I needed like really let that go. I really need to. And I've always like try to be there for him when he's had it had like issues in life. I've always tried to be his friend and listen to his issues, but
Misty Moncada: I that I've just got to stop that. I gotta let him deal with life on his own. Yeah, I agree.
Misty Moncada: Yes, Ma'am, would you like to meet again.
Misty Moncada: Okay, um,
Misty Moncada: Let me see.
Misty Moncada: Let me today. Okay.
Misty Moncada: Do you want me on
Misty Moncada: That
Misty Moncada: Can we meet like around is the 25th. Okay, there's the 18th or some more sooner.
At
Misty Moncada: Okay. The 18th 4pm yes
Misty Moncada: Okay. Okay, I got it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, I'll see you then.
Misty Moncada: Okay, thank you. Have a good night, Jessica.
Misty Moncada: You too. Thanks. Bye.